So welcome back, guys.
Now, let us get familiar with some terminology regarding keep memory segment management.
So there are two kinds of block the block and data block.
So let us try to understand these two blocks with the help of an example.
Suppose your process request memory of 14 bytes from the operating system.
So 14 bytes of block of memory from the Heap segment is assigned to this process.
So you can see that in this diagram, the pink region is a block of memory in which the process can
read or write its data.
So throughout the section of the courts, the Pink Mahmoudi region represents the block of memory into
which you are processed, can read.
All right.
Now, simply this allocation of 14 bytes of memory is done by shifting the breakpoint from this position
to this position in the hip segment.
Right.
So these pink blocks are called data blocks because there is to process data now when the operating
system allocates a data block to a process.
The operating system does one additional thing, the operating system reserves a very small chunk of
memory right at the front of the data block.
So you can see that this block of blue color represents the metal block, why it is called metal block
because it is towards information about the data block.
Now, I ask you one question, which address is stored in the point whether it will be the other one?
The answer is that it is the address of the starting address of the data block.
So it is this adds value, which is returned by standard mallock function so the process can read and
write into this Benkler region, which is called data block, using this point, a variable now coming
back to the meta block, you can see that block is a block, which is the information about the data
block.
So the block stores three kind of information.
First is the size of the data block.
So in this case, the size of the data block is 14 bytes, then this metal block maintains a point of
variable which points to the next metal block.
In this case, there is only one metal block.
Therefore, this pointer variable is null.
And the metal block also maintains a boolean, which says that whether the data block is free or not.
So since this data block has been assigned to the process, therefore it is no more free and therefore
this boolean variable is false.
So now if I ask you to write your own mallock function, how would you have written this Madlock function
so that it creates a data block and returns the starting address of this data block to the process?
In addition to this, it also creates a matter block and installs that information about the data block.
So our enhanced Marlock function would look something like this.
You can see that in this line, you simply caching the value of breakpoints.
In the next line, you are simply expanding the heap memory segment by size, equal to the size that
is requested by the process, plus the size of associated matter block.
So this Esbati call simply expands the heat memory region by size, equal to the size of a block and
size of data block.
And then we are filling up the fields of the block such that metal block stores, that information about
the data block it is associated with and what should be the return value of this function.
You can see that we are returning the starting address of the data block here, that is this Atrous.
Now you can see that the size of a block is fixed, you can assume that the size of the integer is four
bytes and the size of pointer variables is always four bytes on a 32.
Which system?
And let us assume that bullying also take four bites, so the size of the block is constant, which
is 12 bites.
Now, not that operating system inserts additional padding bites at the end to make the total block
size that is the size of a block plus data block and integer multiple of four.
This is called for bite alignment.
So you can see in our example the size of matter block and data block is 28 bytes.
Therefore, operating system inserts an additional two bites so that the total size becomes the size,
which is an integer multiple of four.
This is done by the operating system because the CPU or processor are more comfortable in accessing
the memory when the memory is an integer multiple of four.
So we will not go deep, deep into this for about alignment.
It is not very important either, but be reminded that the process should use only the data block to
read and write its data.
The existence of the matter block all the padding by it is completely hidden from the process.
Process is not aware of any matter block or the padding byte.
But in the heat memory segment, all process more is about the data block, so Handsworth, to simplify
the discussion further, we will ignore the four byte alignment in our future discussions.
We will discuss the concept of byte alignment separately in a different section.